[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm radio and television
host Jimmy Church.
And I'm here to uncover
the truth about some
of life's biggest mysteries.
If this is revealed,
everything has to be rewritten.
My guest today is Jacques
Vallee, an astronomer,
computer scientist,
and ufologists,
who has exposed hidden
secrets about what is possibly
the first UFO retrieval.
>> This object comes
out of nowhere,
the size of two trucks,
and crashes in the bushes.
>> Technical assistant Josh--
Josh, can you pull up the map--
>> Yep.
>>--also joins us to
help set the scenes.
Join us as we deep dive to
get to the bottom of some
of the most intriguing
questions of our time.
Is our government in
possession of a craft that
was made not on planet Earth?
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome to "Into the Vortex."
I'm your host, Jimmy Church.
And today, computer scientist
Jacques Vallee is with us.
Josh, are you excited?
>> Oh, I've been a super
fan of you for a long time.
I've read multiple books.
I'm super excited for
this conversation.
>> Thank you.
>> Jacques, if I may,
I want to start here.
You've been pursuing knowledge
about what may be visiting us
for over 50 years.
But the Trinity case
is not your first case.
You've been looking
at other things.
And when you think about
it, how does Trinity rate
with some of the other
cases you've Investigated
>> Well, what got me
started, as you may know,
is that as a kid and
wanting to be a scientist,
I had an observation of my
own with two other independent
witnesses in France.
And for a long time,
I thought, well,
this may be a new device
that's under testing
or under development.
And then when I started
working at Paris observatory
as an astronomer, tracking
satellites, and computing
orbits, and so on, I
realized that there
was nothing in the sky
like what I had seen.
So that started me
getting information
from other scientists,
from other people who
reported to us.
And I realized that there
was a much larger problem
than anybody had realized.
And then I started
using my training
and using computers to try to
find out what the patterns were
behind the phenomena.
>> Do you think
that over the last--
as we get into Trinity--
over the last four
or five years--
with the revelations that have
been coming forward nearly
daily over the last
five years, is this
starting to validate your
past research and in some ways
a vindication of your
past research, too?
>> It's more than that.
I think of all the people I've
worked with over the years, Dr.
MacDonald, Dr. Hynek, of course,
with the Air Force Project Blue
Book and so on, who are
waiting for this day
when the stigma would be
removed, when people wouldn't
be laughing at the
problem, but they
would start taking it
seriously, and when scientists
would join us because there are
only so many things we could
do with the resources we had.
And now, Dr. Avi Loeb at
Harvard, Dr. Nolan at Stanford,
and I work closely with him
on trace materials and so on.
We have a lot of data that
now can see the light of day.
And that's a wonderful day.
>> One of the things that you
started to present to the world
and to our community very early
on was this contact in these
craft may not be what
we want them to be.
There may be something
inter-dimensional here.
else or maybe
a connection with
our consciousness
to what may be
happening to as well.
This case isn't from
that side of the fence.
How do you feel about that?
And is it something
that conflicts
with your past research?
>> It doesn't conflict.
It validates past
research, not only
mine but that of
many other people
who've looked at crashes
or close encounters.
The case in Socorro and
there is a similar case
in Valenzuela in France,
in all three cases,
there was a thorough
investigation
by the state, not by a UFO
group or volunteers or people
like me, but by the French
government, for example,
in the case of Valenzuela,
by the Army and the Air Force
Project Blue Book and Dr. Hynek
in the case of Socorro where
we--
in the book, we brought new
descriptions, new interviews
that nobody has seen
before about Socorro.
In all three cases,
it wasn't a disk.
It wasn't a flying saucer.
It was an egg-shaped object.
>> Let me jump in.
Josh, pull that up.
We have a drawing here.
This is part of your research.
And obviously,
there's a similarity
here between not only
Socorro and France,
but today, some of the
descriptions of the Tic Tac
in that we are dealing
with an oval-- this
isn't a flying saucer.
It's not a triangle.
It's a very descriptive craft.
And here it is.
Here, does it remind you of
not only modern phenomena
but back to Socorro?
>> Certainly.
Again, my background
is in computer science
and in looking for
patterns and applying
artificial intelligence
to complex patterns
and in science.
Here, it's inescapable.
When you look at-- one case is--
there is no one case, whether
it's Tic Tacs or anything else,
that's going to convince
the public, that's
going to convince the Academy.
What is going to be
convincing and move us along
is looking for patterns,
looking for statistical patterns
on a large number of cases,
which as you know, I've done.
But also, looking
at specific patterns
on the ground where we can
have intense investigation
over weeks and months and
investigation of the materials
that are recovered in
all three of these cases
or more cases that build
a picture that we can show
to scientists that will
convince them there
is a phenomenon there.
>> So in the new edition of your
book that you wrote with Paola
Harris, Trinity, we've got new
witnesses and more information
that has come forward.
But what Trinity,
I think, represents
for me is the possibility of
this being the first crash
retrieval and one
of the first times
that the Department of
Defense and certainly there
in New Mexico where so much
high-level security stuff
was going on at that time.
To have a crash retrieval
happen that predated Roswell
is extraordinary.
Were you surprised by that?
>> Everybody was surprised.
The witnesses hadn't
spoken for 60, 65 years.
Why?
The Air Force hadn't spoken.
Well, there was no
Air Force in 1945.
There was an Army Air Force.
The planes you're going
to see were Army planes
and the pilots
had Army uniforms.
But the object was taken away.
We know it was taken
away first to White Sands
and then to Los Alamos.
And there, there is no
trace of it after that.
It's an object that was
the size of two trucks that
took 10 days to remove from
the site where it crashed.
Actually, it was a controlled
crash landing that they made.
And we have all the details
now because finally, Paola
found the witnesses and got
them to speak on the record
and then brought
me into the case
to continue the research at
the site and the analysis.
>> Before we get to that, let's
set the stage on how everything
unfolded.
We had initial witnesses,
again, the Army, Air Force.
And here Josh, we have
an image of a pilot.
And what can you tell us about
this image, and who was he?
>> So this was at the--
right at the end
of World War II.
This pilot was coming
in for a landing.
This was a month
after the explosion
of the first atomic bomb.
So, you know, great
historic moment,
history changes at that point.
And he's coming in for
a landing at Alamogordo,
which is inside the
White Sands area, which
is very, very large--
where they had detonated
the first bomb.
The tower asked him to check
a communication system that's
on the communication tower at
the north end of the range.
The tower has been hit
by something, and it's--
the communication is broken.
He circles that
communication tower.
Reports that it's bent and
it's out of commission.
And then he sees some
smoke in the brush.
And he sees an
egg-shaped object.
There is no saucer in
anything in the book.
He sees an oval object,
the size of two trucks
with burning brush around it.
And he sees two kids,
two Indians on horseback.
They are not Indians,
but from where
he is, he assumes
that they are Indians
guarding the cattle there.
And then he makes a landing and
gives a report on what he saw.
So we can place everything at
that inception of the case,
which we cannot do in Roswell.
In Roswell, if you remember,
the traces, the object
was seen a couple of days later
after searching in the desert
for the crash site.
Here, we can place
everybody at the crash site.
>> I have to jump in here
because we need to understand
the location, because with the
timing of a witness like that,
a military pilot, we have the
location, we have the date,
and we have the time.
Josh, can you pull up the
map of where this occurred?
And if you can
help us understand,
Jacques, what we are looking at.
>> So White Sands
was, of course,
the secret area where Project
Manhattan installed all
the equipment and for the
detonation of the first atomic
bomb.
It happened in July 1945.
One month later to the day, this
object crashes in San Antonito.
That is the bottom
red dot that you see.
>> Jacques, so the elephant
in the room for me here is we
detonated the first
nuclear weapon,
and then one month
later, a UFO crashed.
Now, anyone who's
researched ufology
realizes there's a connection
between nuclear weapons
and UFOs.
>> I think Trinity was a signal
from somewhere that you think
you're clever with your
technology, look at this one.
>> Yeah, it was a big moment.
>> We tried to figure it out.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> So what happened
next with this,
where we have the
two kids out there?
We've got a pilot there.
And what happened next?
>> The pilot makes his report.
The Army Air Force gets
involved, of course,
in retrieving this.
The kids have gone home
and told their families.
And Jose Padilla, who is
our main witness today,
is still alive.
He's about 85.
Remembers clearly what happened.
His father called the Army.
An officer came to the
house, and they told him
about the case.
And then the next day,
the two kids drove the--
guided the two
adults, the father
and the-- and an
officer, to the site
to show them where
the object was.
>> Now, with trace evidence,
which is always important,
not only with UFO
but with any case,
it's always the first question.
What evidence do you have?
What have you collected?
And in the case of
Trinity, the evidence
that has been
presented to you, how
does that stand up with
the other trace evidence
that you've been
analyzing in the past?
>> So first, we have the
evidence in the terrain.
And that's fully documented.
We know the-- the Army
had to ask permission
to cut the fence to that
ranch to drive a big truck
to go recover that object.
So anybody who says,
well, this could
have been a hoax
with a fancy balloon,
that fancy balloon was weighing
between two and five tons.
And we know that from the kind
of truck that they brought
and the crane that
the Army would bring.
This would take three days.
The kids are watching
this every day.
I mean, for the kids, of
course, this was extraordinary.
And they had the opportunity to
help adults recover this thing
and to tell them about
what they had seen.
The fire that the
pilot had described,
the craft was not on fire.
I mean, an airplane would
have been broken into pieces
when it hit the tower.
And this object hit the
tower, bent the tower,
and then plow the boulevard
for about half a kilometer
way into that brush and
made a turn under control.
So it was really a
controlled crash.
The kids are going to see
three creatures that we
can talk about later in
an opening in the object,
but the rest of the
object is intact.
>> Well, but-- sorry
to pull you up,
but why did the object hit
a tower and then crash?
Is there any
information on that?
>> We don't know that.
There had been a
thunderstorm before.
It may have disturbed something
about the object trajectory.
We don't know
where it came from.
And what we know is
that it hit the tower,
and it crash-landed there.
Now, the problem is
to go recover it.
And the Army is going
to take most of the week
to go there and recover it.
And we have all the details.
In the book I reconstructed
the temperature,
the weather on every single
day and the action of the Army
on every single day.
We know that from the
very detailed testimony
of the two kids, one of them--
there were all, of course, grown
man, died a couple of years
before I became involved.
But Paola Harris started
the investigation.
And we had all the tapes
of these interviews
that we transcribed
for the book.
Jose Padilla, who was an
officer with the Highway
Patrol in California
for many years,
had fought in Korea, had
two bullets in his body.
I mean, this is the
best witness you
could have because
it's someone who
has been in conditions of
where his value of observation
was really the key.
And he's really an
excellent observer.
And we were able
to reconstruct what
happened on every
single day when
they were there, the object
and the witnesses and so on.
The other thing is
the context, why are
these two kids running a ranch?
Well, this is the
end of World War II.
All the able-bodied
men and women
are in uniform scattered
all over the world.
I mean, I was born in 1939
when Germany invaded France.
The first five years of
my life were in invaded--
in German controlled France.
I remember that vividly.
I've studied the end of
World War II in Europe.
I have no idea or only
a vague idea of what
had happened in the Pacific.
Here, this is two days
after the capitulation
of Japan, one month
after the detonation
of the first atomic bomb.
And this object
comes out of nowhere,
destroys the communication
tower for Project Manhattan
and crashes in the bushes in
front of a pilot and two kids.
What does that mean?
I mean, isn't that a historic
moment, among other things,
as well as a scientific puzzle?
So this is how I--
when I realized--
thanks to Paola
who had seen that also from a
historic perspective, not just
as another UFO.
This is what we try to
bring into the book,
into the significance of some
of these unique observations
in the whole history.
>> And there's another dynamic
here that is just staring
at us, which is we have a
white, egg-shaped, oval craft,
but also, that there were beings
sighted with this too as well.
What-- the description--
>> It was grey.
It wasn't white.
The kids rushed there to
try to help the pilots.
I mean, they had--
nobody had any idea
of UFOs at that time.
And what they see is
three short beings
about their size,
about three feet,
a little over three feet
tall, that breathe our air.
So they look human.
They don't have a
helmet, they don't
have what you would expect
extraterrestrial to have.
They breathe our air.
They're alive, but
they are moving,
sliding inside this object.
They never come out.
And they seem to be in a
state of total confusion.
We are not going
to see them again.
We don't know what happened
that night, whether they
were picked up by something,
but how they disappeared.
But we're not going to see
them again in the later days.
>> We have an image of that.
Josh, can you pull this up?
And this is fascinating to
me, to have this so many years
later.
So the direction starts on
the left side of this image.
Jacques, what can you
tell us about this?
>> Well, it comes
from the north,
and it's going
south under control.
It's actually digging
up a boulevard.
And about half a
foot of dirt is going
to be removed by that thing.
As it glides down
the hill, it gets
to that point with the
circle, with the red circle,
and it makes a controlled turn
against the landscape there.
Then it stops where
the bushes are.
The bushes catch fire.
The object does not catch fire.
And the-- that's the point where
the pilot coming in with a B-25
is going to circle over the
area and see all of that,
and see the two kids while
taking care of the cattle
there.
>> How long did it take
for them to load this up?
And how many trucks and
how big were the trucks?
>> So that's the funny part.
You'd expect if-- you've
seen the movies by Spielberg.
The Army gets there
with big helicopters.
It wasn't that.
The Army had to ask permission
to get on the ranch.
A lieutenant arrives,
goes to the house
of the owner, the father of Jose
Padilla, Mr. Faustino Padilla,
and says in Spanish,
Senor, we've
lost one of our weather
balloons on your land.
>> Heard that before.
>> We would like to
go and get it back.
Senor Padilla says, oh,
you want weather balloons?
I mean, I catch your
weather balloons.
They-- this is a
very large ranch.
White Sands is sending
weather balloons every morning
for wind directions and so on.
And he picks them up.
Everybody wants to help the war.
Everybody wants
to help the Army.
So he goes into the
next room, comes back
with an armful of nicely
folded weather balloons.
Gives it back to the officer.
And he says, no, Senor, it's
a special weather balloon,
and we need to go and get it.
So we would like to
catch your fence.
Mr. Padilla says there is
a cattle gate in my fence
where I go to get the cows out.
You can use that.
You're welcome to use that.
Says no, we have a--
we need a bigger truck to
get the weather balloon.
And we're going
to cut your fence,
but you'll have a nice fence
that the Army will give you
that will stay there
that will be large.
And then we need
to bring a tractor
and dig a road to where the
object is to get it out.
And they do that.
And you can still see it.
When you go to
that ranch, there's
this very wide area where
they brought what they--
a lowboy which was one
of those Army trucks
where you could put two tanks.
>> Right.
>> OK, that gives you an idea
of what kind of weather balloon
that was.
>> Pretty heavy one.
I love the second
Spielberg reference today.
We're going to need
a bigger truck.
So the object was so big it
couldn't go through town.
You had streetlights.
You have power lines
going across the street.
>> Well, there is a bridge--
you're looking at the--
the Pacific Highway is going
down there all the way south.
And there was a bridge where the
object when it was on the truck
would have hit the highway.
So they had to bring a crane
also in addition to the truck
to turn the object around.
And that's how the kids
could-- on their last day
could see the underside of it.
That's why we have
the description.
The kids saw the object
when it was on the truck,
on the Army truck, on the
lowboy that the crane had
put it there.
And of course, they
wanted to get close to it.
There was a time when
they could get close
without the soldiers
looking at them.
And they looked
at the underside.
The underside had no
trace of an engine.
It was completely smooth.
And there was no propeller.
There were no reactors.
There was none of that.
So how does it work?
And of course, that's a question
for any scientist when you
have that kind of description.
When it was on the
side, it was egg-shaped.
They called it an
avocado in Spanish.
And then it could go
under the overpass.
>> Now, going back
to the evidence,
is there a paper trail
about the retrieval of this,
where they took it?
Did it end up maybe
at Wright Patterson?
Are there reports of the crash?
Is there a military paper trail?
>> So that's the
interesting part,
that the Air Force was not
involved and all this was
the Army.
And the Army had
planes and pilots,
but it was all
in-- the Air Force
is not going to exist
until two years later.
Truman is going to sign
the order for the creation
of the Air Force.
The term flying
saucer is not going
to be in the English language
until two years later.
OK.
So we're way before what people
think of as the UFO flying
saucer era.
Few of the documents
have survived,
but we know from the
testimony and the testimony
of other witnesses
we keep finding,
that's where our
investigation continues,
there must be other people
who are there afterwards.
Of course, they would be older.
They would be in
their late 60s or 70s,
but people who've seen
the aftermath of this.
And we've already
found two of them
who can describe
the materials that
were retrieved after the Army
had gone and taken the thing.
As you know, I've
participated in a number
of studies including the
classified Base-80 research.
I've spoken to a
number of people
who were cleared as I was
cleared for these cases.
None of them knew about
this particular case.
The reason is it didn't go
through the normal secret path
of secret, top secret,
and SAP, and so on.
It went to the Atomic Energy
Commission classification
system, which is P and
Q and R, classification
that's very specific
for the atomic secrets.
The craft never went
to the Air Force.
Air Force never had custody
of it as far as we can tell.
It would have gone
to White Sands, which
was the Manhattan Project.
The Manhattan Project after
the war, within weeks of this,
merged into a new entity
which became the Atomic Energy
Commission and became
the Department of Energy.
We know that the
object went there.
It would have gone
first-- it would
have been taken to Los Alamos
to be taken to the lab.
For all I know, it
may still be there.
But we lose trace of it
there, except that one
of the witnesses, Reme Baca,
became a prominent businessman
in the state of Washington.
Worked with the
unions there and with
the Spanish-speaking population
in the state of Washington,
and worked with Dixy Lee Ray who
was the governor of Washington.
And then she was the first
director of the Atomic Energy
Commission.
Dixy Lee Ray heard
about the case.
He told her about what
he had seen as a kid.
And she went to the safe
and took the report,
the official report, and
showed him the Atomic Energy
Commission report on the crash.
They didn't let him keep it.
It was obviously
classified, but she
felt that she trusted
him enough that she
could show him the report.
>> This is where things get
pretty dark and pretty serious.
When you are trying
to research this,
we do go to the Department
of Defense first.
We think about the Air Force
or the Navy and military.
But there is a lot
of conversation today
that if you want to get to
some of this information,
and you want to get
to the real stuff,
you go to the
Department of Energy.
You go to the Atomic
Energy Commission.
It's easier to keep stuff
buried there because that's not
where people look first.
Is this what you're finding?
>> And that's legitimate.
I mean, that's
where it should be.
The atomic secrets,
there is no reason
why anybody with a
security clearance
should have access to
the atomic secrets.
And there is a third
classification,
which is a State Department
with foreign secrets.
There is no reason--
if you're working in DOD
working on some new prototype
of an aircraft,
there is no reason
why you should have
access to what's
going on politically in South
America or something like that.
So these are appropriate.
And I'm not saying
that we should just
break the classification
on all of that.
You have been
collecting and doing
testing on collected evidence
for many, many years.
>> Too many years.
Have you been able to--
and the second--
Josh, pull this up.
Your evidence and
some of the images
that I've seen of you with
this in a laboratory setting,
I find it extraordinary.
What's the secret that
you can share with me now?
Is there something between
this collected evidence
that suggests an
extraterrestrial origin?
>> I mean, obviously, you
look for physical evidence.
We know of physical evidence
at the ranch in San Antonio
because we have witnesses
who've played with it
when they were kids,
including fibers
that would light up and
change colors and so on.
Well, Colonel Corso who was
in charge of-- we know--
through the interviews
that Paola Harris has
done with him, both in the
US and in Italy and so on,
we know that at the
end of World War II,
he was in charge of evidence
that had been collected
and that was given to
different laboratories,
to IBM, to Battelle,
to Lockheed, and so
on of different fibers and
different pieces of metal that
were analyzed by different labs.
We know that data is out there.
I mean, in my own
career, I've spoken
to people who had
had access to those
and could describe what
those characteristics were.
Good luck making sense of it.
It's very complex.
It's ahead of what we
have, but we can test it.
We can--
And that's what
we've started to do.
So I've collected--
this is part of the data
that I've collected that
people have given me.
Professor Schrock at
Stanford University
had studied that work 30, 40
years ago with instruments
that enabled him to look not
only at the composition--
I mean, composition
is one thing,
but somebody could fool you
with chemicals and so on,
but looking at the isotopes.
If there is something
that has been modified
about the characteristics
of the materials
for a particular purpose,
whether it's biology
or whether it is
travel in outer space,
you would expect them
to need to modify
the elements that we have--
that we can collect
in the chemistry lab.
And in fact, some
of the indications
are that some of the isotopic
ratios have been changed.
Well, that could only be done
by a very sophisticated lab.
This is not something you
can do in your kitchen.
And we have started
to look at this.
And I've transferred
all of that including
data that I got from
Professor Schrock
to Dr. Nolan at Stanford.
And we're expanding
that collection
and redoing the testing.
Then we just published the
first scientific article
vetted by a review board
published in Astronautics
journal, international journal.
So we hope that that will open
the way to other scientists
to submit data.
Until now, there was a barrier.
Most of the big
reviews in science
didn't want to
publish anything that
had to do with UFOs
because of the stigma.
We have removed that stigma.
>> One of the things that the
UFO community enjoys about you
is their discussion about
Jacques Vallee knowing
the secret stuff, and what does
he know and what is he going
to possibly share with us?
So I'm going to ask
you right now is
our government in
possession of either a crash
retrieval or controlled
landing craft
that was made not
on planet Earth?
>> We know-- it's not a secret
anymore that those things have
been retrieved.
They've been retrieved all over
the world by special teams.
They've been taken
to the best labs.
Again, I respect the
need for secrecy,
but there is a
point where secrecy
becomes a thing for itself.
That the small group
of men and women
have access to
certain things, that
doesn't mean that they are
necessarily the ones most
qualified to work on it.
I think we're
getting to the point
and it's, again,
to me a great day
when Congress says open the
doors, open the windows,
let us in.
Let's look at what
you have there.
But that has to be done
in a way that's careful,
that will involve the
scientific community.
If I was a betting
man, I wouldn't
bet that the secret
projects have any answers.
>> Jacques, thank you so much.
What a great conversation.
>> Thank you.
Always a pleasure.
>> I'm your host Jimmy Church.
This is Into the Vortex.
And along with Josh,
we'll see you next time.